content/blog/learning-korean-1.md, before:

---
title: "I'm spending $1000 to learn Korean"
date: 2020-11-10T22:11:28-05:00
slug: ""
description: ""
keywords: []
draft: true
tags: []
math: false
toc: false
---
Since August of 2019, I’ve been learning Korean. For longest time, I’ve wanted to continue learning it, but I’ve been woefully unmotivated. That’s changing today, and I’m going to invest $1000 towards being able to speak the language.

I’m doing this, partly because I want to be outrageous and partly because I want to commit to learning another language.

**My Favorite Language Learning Strategies**

I’m constantly evaluating my strategy, and I think I’ve found a winning one. Talking to another human has been the best way to improve my skills. The anxiety that comes with speaking means I never forget a word. Listening means I have to understand the words they say. 

I’ve had luck listening to conversations as a way to review vocabulary while also getting used to normal speaking patterns. And to learn new words in class, it was super effective for me to use brute force repetition by listening a recording of the words.

Pre-COVID, I was doing the best I’d ever done in my Korean class. I was able to quickly prepare for quizzes by listening to a tape for 30 minutes while I worked out. And I got a little bit of speaking practice by showing up at the language labs twice a week. My only problem was that I struggled to regurgitate the vocabulary to talk.

Of course, this comes with practice, but I couldn’t be bothered to spend any more than 30 minutes outside of the classroom. 

**My Results after 1 year of Korean classes**

Following the textbook schedule, we covered on average 40 words a week along with maybe 40 different grammar concepts. This totaled to 1000 words. These 1000 words were enough to ask someone about their day and make dinner plans. But not enough to watch a television show.

**The Goal**

I think there’s some scientific study that says we need about 10,000 to be considered fluent. But only 5000 to be advanced. So, I’m planning on reaching for the 5,000 mark. Following my classroom pace, it would take me 2 years to reach it. 

But who the heck has 2 years? So, I’m going to accelerate this. And that’s where monetary investments come in. I’m going to spend about $1000 on 1 on 1 tutoring in Korean in hopes of speeding up my speaking and listening in Korean. I’m going to use all the techniques from above to try to reach a strong level.

I’ll try to update this as the weeks roll by.

Commit message:

fix: edits in the korea challenge to update my failure

content/blog/learning-korean-1.md, after:

---
title: "I'm spending $1000 to learn Korean"
date: 2020-11-10T22:11:28-05:00
slug: ""
description: ""
keywords: []
draft: true
tags: []
math: false
toc: false
---

*UPDATE: I failed at this challenge and it exists now only as click-bait. I went to about 4 classes before ultitamtely giving up and probably watching television instead. But I think this could be a cool idea for a future challenge*

Since August of 2019, I’ve been learning Korean. For longest time, I’ve wanted to continue learning it, but I’ve been woefully unmotivated. That’s changing today, and I’m going to invest $1000 towards being able to speak the language.

I’m doing this, partly because I want to be outrageous and partly because I want to commit to learning another language.

**My Favorite Language Learning Strategies**

I’m constantly evaluating my strategy, and I think I’ve found a winning one. Talking to another human has been the best way to improve my skills. The anxiety that comes with speaking means I never forget a word. Listening means I have to understand the words they say. 

I’ve had luck listening to conversations as a way to review vocabulary while also getting used to normal speaking patterns. And to learn new words in class, it was super effective for me to use brute force repetition by listening a recording of the words.

Pre-COVID, I was doing the best I’d ever done in my Korean class. I was able to quickly prepare for quizzes by listening to a tape for 30 minutes while I worked out. And I got a little bit of speaking practice by showing up at the language labs twice a week. My only problem was that I struggled to regurgitate the vocabulary to talk.

Of course, this comes with practice, but I couldn’t be bothered to spend any more than 30 minutes outside of the classroom. 

**My Results after 1 year of Korean classes**

Following the textbook schedule, we covered on average 40 words a week along with maybe 40 different grammar concepts. This totaled to 1000 words. These 1000 words were enough to ask someone about their day and make dinner plans. But not enough to watch a television show.

**The Goal**

I think there’s some scientific study that says we need about 10,000 to be considered fluent. But only 5000 to be advanced. So, I’m planning on reaching for the 5,000 mark. Following my classroom pace, it would take me 2 years to reach it. 

But who the heck has 2 years? So, I’m going to accelerate this. And that’s where monetary investments come in. I’m going to spend about $1000 on 1 on 1 tutoring in Korean in hopes of speeding up my speaking and listening in Korean. I’m going to use all the techniques from above to try to reach a strong level.

I’ll try to update this as the weeks roll by.
