---
title: "Quitting Videogames"
date: 2016-07-16T18:33:21-04:00
slug: ""
description: ""
keywords: []
draft: true
tags: []
math: false
toc: false
---
*Another post from the articles. This is a chapter from my life, probably when I was 17 in 2015. It's not super-polish and it might be one of my least favorite thigns I've writte. That said, I might as well leave it online for a little bit. I think I could edit it to have it be better.*


I've been playing video games for a really long time. I spent a lot of time during my childhood with my grandma, because my mom worked. In the projects, my mom came home late and I played video games. It was pretty great. More family showed up at my grandma's house and they introduced me to new video games. Things like Pokemon, Final Fantasy, EverQuest, and World of Warcraft caught my eye. I really wanted to play them because that's what the adults were playing. Also, they looked really nice and so much more different. I bought and tried all of these. I would quit some and play others. That's how it went, buy new games, they get boring, buy more new ones. I didn't really like it, because the games I give up, I usually hated. There are a small amount of games that I actually loved to play.

The scene that I want to focus on for this post is esports and competitive gaming. My competitive gaming started my 7th grade year when I saw Starcraft II. I thought it was amazing and I was completely ready to play a strategy game. During the summer I bought it and me and my best gaming friends played it together. We were really bad. The first couple of weeks that I played, my hands were killing me. It's a very fast paced game and dependent on how fast your fingers can move. I love it. I probably played the game every day on my free-time. There was also ranked gameplay. I placed the lowest tier possible, Bronze, while my friend somehow made it to Silver. I played and practiced to get better. Again, I loved the idea of going competitive. I never imagined myself doing tournaments, I guess I just wanted something to practice and get better at. My computer was a hindrance to this goal at the time. It significantly dropped my game play and experience. So I waited and waited. I got a new part for my computer-I think- and commited a lot of my free time to playing. I did a couple of tournaments online.

Tournaments are very interesting because you're of course playing for money. You can get very nervous as you try your best to beat your opponent. One particular tournament, I played with my terrible strategies and managed to get to the final round. I played against some other bronze guy, who did a really cheap strategy to beat me. I can't believe that I fell for it. But, hey, I finished 2nd, and got money. That experience was very exhilarating, but I was really scared to do it again.

 I shot up through the ranks. I analyzed the professional players strategies and implemented them with my own style. It was great. Winning games is an amazing feeling because you know that you won. It wasn't luck, or anything else. You outplayed your opponent and won. Under a year, I jumped 3 tiers and went into platinum, while my friend dropped to Bronze. I continued playing and got on a 13 win streak in platinum, it was ridiculously easy. Whether it was school, fear, or the scene dying. I stopped playing.

The entire purpose of that long story was that those were by far the best times I've had playing video games. I want to show that video games aren't entirely useless. Starcraft made me feel amazing. I actually came close to winning a tournament, that's never happend before. The practice I put into the game resulted in the execution of great strategies that beat my opponents. People complained that X race is OP, but I didn't let that stop me from finding ways to win. I didn't always win. I've had games where I've had painful losses. Extremely close games. My experiences with Starcraft set the stage for all my other games, like Call of Duty and League of Legends.

I hate that this is turning into a history of my video games, but oh well we're here now. Around my 8th grade year, I met another friend that played a game I liked. Call of Duty. This guy was different than my other friend. He was really bad when I met him at CoD, but he played and played. He became one of the best I've ever seen. CoD was a lot more popular than Starcraft 2, but it a lot dumber and less skill inclined. Also, due to it's popularity, there is a lot of competition. I've tried doing tournaments with CoD and it didn't work out. You'd have to go on forums and talk to people. Things I didn't like to do at that time.

My 9th grade year I played games more casually, until the Summer. Then I found League of Legends from my casual Starcraft 2 custom games. Those were really fun by the way. League had a tier system just like Starcraft which made me start to like it. I imagined that I would climb the ranks just as I did in Starcraft 2. That didn't really happen. League was the last competitive video game I've played, and probably the last ever. It's extremely different from Starcraft

League of Legends is team based. With any team based system, you will have arguments with other people. People have terrible team working skills and blame others. They rage, insult, and quit. They add into a vast sea of uncertainty in the game. It's ridiculous. Add that with the fact that there are over 70 different playable characters each with different skills and abilities. And with that, there are 5 different roles available with per team. Oh and if that isn't enough variability, the games are approximately 30-40minutes long. Starcraft was face paced and 1v1 with 3 different races. The games lasted about 10 minutes each. League of Legends is complicated, I can't stress that enough. If you want to go pro in that game while balancing a college-life, good luck to you.

The learning curve to being good at League of Legends is extremely steep. It takes a lot of game play and hours to become even somewhat good, let's say gold tier. It's extremely hard to balance with school. It took me a year to become platinum in Starcraft. It took me a year to stay Silver in League of Legends. It's popularity is rising, much higher than Starcraft II, so you can easily find some friends to play with at your school, but with it, there are a ton of jerks.

The community was why I left. I loved playing the game, but I hated the concept. It's brought me frustration, not happiness. It was nothing like Starcraft, the game that I loved. [Here's a very popular video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VjzgbZL12VI)

I researched and studied professional players. I can tell you a lot of the mistakes that they make, just as I still can with Starcraft. I can't correct these mistakes in League of Legends because it is team-based with strangers. There are a lot of theories to beating this, but I gave up. My friends continue to play it and sometimes I play with them, but the game doesn't give me the same happiness that SC2 did. There is a large lack of responsibility. If your teammate makes a mistake you can just make fun of them for it. That's a horrible concept that adds no value to anyone. I've been insulted countless times playing League of Legends and I'm done with it. Why would I play a game to be told the mistakes that I'm making? It offers no value to me. I remember the last game that I played. I was on a 3 loss streak, and I told myself that I could not keep doing this. If I lost this game, I'm uninstalling, I quit, it's not worth it. League of Legends was becoming a large consumption of my time that I wasn't enjoying. It was an escape from life. When I lost, "It was my team's fault" that's something every League player has said.

For the reasons above I quit playing. I quit playing video games too, unless it was social. That's the only aspect of playing it that I would do. It's fun to talk and laugh with friends when playing a game. It's different when that game becomes all that you can think about. It's different when that game ruins your day. As of now, I'm done with the cycle. Some gamers might know it.

**Find Awesome Game ---> Play it A lot and have fun for a while ---> Starts getting boring ---> You still Play because there is "nothing else to do" ----> You hate the game, but still play it ---> Hey look a new game to play**


I would buy games and be severely disappointed with them, Homefront, Borderlands, Red Dead, CoD(This definitely), MineCraft,  the list goes on and on. The new features look cool, but it's all the same thing. They're all the same thing and it's all boring.
