---
title: "Why I want to Take a Gap Year"
date: 2016-02-16T18:54:50-04:00
slug: ""
description: ""
keywords: []
draft: true
tags: []
math: false
toc: false
---

When I tell my smart and studious IB friends that I want to take a break from college for a year, they look at me with a confused face. "Why on Earth would you do that!" it's like I just took a crap on their lawn. And their reactions make sense; I've spent three years in a program designed to give me skills for college. Why would I not want to jump in? Along with that, I'm suppose to realize that college is the purpose of life; without college, I'm basically a bum on the streets. 
To start, gap years are a growing trend across the world, starting in Europe. It's also growing in the US. Harvard Admissions encourages students to take a year off because taking 7 AP classes can be stressful. There are organizations built to promote gap years. You know, because taking violin lessons every week, playing Varsity basketball, and doing homework for several hours a day can suck the fun out of life. School is becoming this giant competition where students try to pile on as much work as possible despite being sleep deprived. When we decide that taking a break for a year is detrimental, it isn't a surprise that anxiety and depression is growing in the US, despite medical advancements.
For the reason above, and others, I'm planning on taking a gap year from college. Part of this has to do with me being a hipster, nonconformist adolescent, on the other hand, I've been in love with language learning and travelling for a few years now. Below, I'm listing some reasons why I'm planning to leave the US and start working in Colombia for a year.
1.) Countries outside the US are pleasant to live in. And no, they aren't a hell hole and they won't give you AIDS.
As Americans, I think it's common to believe that countries outside of US are slim infested areas. This is far from true. Along with costing less money to live in than the United States, you're getting more bang for your buck.  If you're making $2,000 a month in Colombia, you could be living in a great apartment, go out to eat often, and take dancing or Spanish classes on your free time. $2,000 a month in Pensacola gets you a crappy apartment where you live paycheck to paycheck. You can forget about the restaurants.
I've spoken and emailed several people who've lived in numerous countries around the world, and while travel can be dangerous, most of the time it isn't. As long as you stay out of the poor regions, there isn't much to worry about. In fact, there are several articles explaining how Americans have terrible generalizations on the ongoings of countries that aren't the United States. 
2.) School is Getting Exhausting
I had a lot of motivation freshman year to succeed. That continued my Sophomore year, and started to wane during my Junior year. If it wasn't for a nagging sense of failure, my friends, and the fact that I paid for $1000 worth of exams, I might have dropped out by now. Actually, I probably wouldn't have, but school sucks now. It used to be fun, but it just isn't anymore. Learning has become replaced with loads of due dates and papers and essays for colleges when it's my final year, and I just want to learn Spanish and find a job. This brings me to my next point.
3.) I Don't Have Money For College
Like, I don't have any money, zero dollars, maybe a few hundred. Did you know that the majority of my friends make more money than me? If their parents don't make six figures, then their extremely smart and score 90th percentile on standardized test which allow them to receive top scholarships from colleges.
College debt is soaring in the US, and I'm not prepared to be down hundreds of thousands of dollars, no matter how much I love the Florida Gators. If I took a gap year, I'd be working in the foreign country and trying to save money towards college, along with building resume experience. It looks nice to say you spent a year in South America teaching English.
Some objections that I've heard is that everyone has college debt, or that I could get a scholarship. For the scholarship, if I get one then I'll be happy, but it isn't likely or something to bank on. In terms of "everyone" having debt, while I would love to blindly follow everyone into years of paying back my student loans(I'm sure we'll all laugh at it), I'm not in a rush to start college. If anything, working will at least reduce the amount of debt that I have to pay back.
4.) I really want to learn another language
Part of the reason I joined IB was because I heard that we have to learn another language, and I had always wanted to be bilingual. My Junior year I promised myself that I would learn Spanish, and I branched out into things like Chinese, German, and French. With my past interest in languages, it shouldn't be surprise that I want to learn more.
By the end of my gap year, I should be efficiently bilingual. Granted, I'm kind of disappointed that I won't be able to speak Chinese or South Korea or a CIA mission language, I'll be satisfied having gone through the effort of working with another language.
5.) It's a Personal Desire and Adventure
If I take a gap year, it's because I want to. It isn't because my mom said it was cool, or my friend suggested it to me. It's a independent decisions, and an albeit risky one. It's something that's a part of my growth as an individual and a challenge for myself to see if I can do it. I think we spend too much time in the traditional means of doing things, or, we try pleasing other people instead of ourselves. Everyone wants to go to Harvard because their parents will be so happy, and they can finally tell Jimmy to suck it because they're so awesome. However, as great as it is to live up to everyone's standards, there are some things we should do for ourselves. In a sense, this is a sort of personal adventure.
IB learner profile says that we should be risk takers because life is something that has ups and downs. Avoiding risks at all costs leads to a pretty boring and menial life. That doesn't interest me. I want to do take risks and have fun for myself.
All of these reasons mix with each other and lead to me being considered even more weird by my friends. It's led to me spending days researching the cost of living in various countries and the possibility of me finding work in those countries. It's led arguments with myself debating is this actually the right thing to do. And it ends with me being 80% sure that I want to leave the US for Colombia in the summer. Now, I just have to find a job...
